---
layout: post
title: "Learning to trust God"

tags: [learning]
---

I was writing this after I had a quick talk with my supervisor. I just came to him with the intention of asking his signature for tuition fee exemption documents. He asked about JSPS results. Then, I replied that I did not pass. He asked about other source of funding until he brought up that the other student in our laboratory was able to get funding from the same scholarship I applied and failed to be accepted. My initial reaction was surprise and slight disbelief. I was caught off guard. 

I did not say this to my supervisor, but I try to write here what I felt (and somehow still feeling) when I heard the news. First, I feel (I would like to say slight, but after re-thinking I am not sure if I can even use the word) annoyed that that student gets accepted. Second, I feel and reminded of the feeling of being treated unfairly despite all the hardwork I put into. Regarding the first feeling, that's entirely wrong. I should not have felt that way even if I thought that's the right feeling. I should not even be annoyed or even feel hate towards her. I guess I was reminded that we're once in tension with each other, and I felt the need to win. And her getting the scholarship made it look like she won over me **WHICH IS NOT TRUE.** No one wins in a pride competition. No one gets a prize, a worthy prize, at the expense of looking down on a person. To be honest, I felt that I should have gotten the same scholarship as her because she was no better than me. But as I think about it, if I got the scholarship and not her, I would think worse, way worse than that. Man, that is pride creeping inside of me trying to rule over me. About the second feeling, as I think deeply about them, the rejection from them (the scholarship) made me question my worth and my hardwork. That because I got rejected, I am not doing a very good job. But, as I was writing this, I am reminded that I am a Christian. The surprising fact is it was my supervisor, currently a non-believer, who reminded me, even without saying explicitly, that reminded me to be one despite this news. I can confidently say that this is God working through his agent. He is working in us (transforming me from within), around us (using His creation as agents), and through us (that while this, we can be His agents as well). And just before starting to write this paper, I was reminded of His word, **"You have to trust in Me."**

I am in a career setup where value increases as more knowledge have been acquired. There is nothing wrong with that. But if I am not careful, it could easily go south. That I attach my value and other people's value based on what they could and could not do. That could easily lead to competition, false power acquisition, hatred towards one another, selfishness and so on. This experience continously teach me to trust in God both in highs and in lows (which by the way was my prayer this morning). That I should think higher about myself than the others just because... Instead, see people, including myself, as valuable and beautiful creation of because of the Creator and regardless... That our worth is not dependent on approval or rejection from this world. God already gave us worth when He created us. And that our labor, in my case at my school most of the time but of course everywhere, is not invain not because they are very good or very bad but because they are for the Lord. 

It is so beautiful this experience on seeing God working in our daily lives. 

I'd like to thank my supervisor for encouraging me of my Christian values in his own simple way. I hope I am doing the same to him. 
