---
layout: post
title: "Already in vacation mmode"

tags: [blog]
---

Yesterday was a blast. We did a Youth Thanksgiving Fellowship at TWT for the first time both the young adults and the teens. It is a core memory. Of course,  there are still some barriers between both groups, but I am hoping that we are able to build rapport amongst each other. 12 years ago, I was the one sitting in their seats. And I remember how vulnerable and chaotic those teenager years were. This is when you start to establish long lasting relationships, exploring and trying out new things that may or may not be good for you, being founded in your beliefs, feeling things that are difficult to manage, feel being misunderstood, feel that you are working against everyone including your family and you feel like youre only friends are the ones that agree with you. In itself, teenager years are already a whirlwind. And without someone guiding you, it becomes a tornado. I can imagine how these teens are feeling every single day. I know I want to be the person for these teens whom I wish I had when I was a teenager. Someone that will hear even the words I could not express, and someone that will love even if it means correcting me which is uncomfortable but is necessary. Cause that what it means to love. That we love a person so much that we will not let them continue living in the way opposite to God's way.

So how do we move forward from this? I know for a fact that I could not do it alone. God has gave me talents and skills, but it's not enough to cater everyone else. I need help. First, from God. Second, from people around me, church. Should I start a music lessons not only for Ayumi but also to others that may be interested? But if I am the only one doing the teaching then that would be difficult to handle. I should ask help. Maybe draft a plan. Then ask opinions from other people? 

Going back, I feel like these thoughts are the ones causing pain in my head so much that after writing them my head lightens. Don't get me wrong, these thoughts are not bad. Maybe I just needed to process them. But it was fun yesterday. I am blessed to experience those moments with everyone, even the ones that I barely had a conversation with. It was good. 
